Load balencer are servers that forward internet traffic to downstreams or instances.
1.spread load across muliple downstream instances
2.Expose a single point of access DNS to your app
3. handles fails of downstream instances
4. do reguler health checks
5.provide ssl termination https for your web apps
6.separate public and privte NW
7. high availabilty across zones.

AWS has 3 types of load balences
1.classic load balencer
2.application load balencer[http/https]
3.network load balencer[TCP]

you can setup internal(private) LB and external(public) LB 
Ex:Dnsname/details to chk details of LB


how to create Loadbalencer:
1.From option create load balencer and add instances, then use public IP of load balncer to verify.
2.Create security group to use load bslencer url as security to conncet the instances from external.
3.Configure health check.

How to create classic load balencer:
Define load balencer and create listener on port 80
create security grp or use existing
configure security settings
configure health check
Add EC2 information
VPC informations
Security groups use create or existin.
using DNS Name and port we can use LB.
then go security grp option and set the source as loadbalencer secrity grp so that app access only through LB, not from other security grp.
no one direclty connect our ec2 instances.

create Security groups or edit and add inbound and outbound rules here we need to add dnsname url, So that we can't allow to access instnce using http://IP/port.
These are expencive and inefficient compared to Application LB.

Health checks:
Are crucial for load balencer
they enable LB to froward traffic to instances to are avail to send request and response.
Health check is done to a port and route(/health)
If the response is not 200 OK, Then instance is un healthy.

How to create application load balencer(Layer 7):
Load balencing to multiple http applications across machines(target group)
Load balencing to multiple http applications in the same machines(container)
Load balencing based on route in URL.
Load balencing based on hostname in URL.
Basically they are awesome for microservices and containa based apps(ex: Docker)

1.create target group. and configure heakth check then associate with LB.
while create load balecer -> configure route option here u select target group.

2.set up or create ALB application load balencer
3.look at how set up rules and load balencers

How to create Network load balencer(Layer 4):Mostly used for extream performance and shouldnot be the deafault load balencer to choose.
support for static IP and Elastic IP
Less latency ~100 ms.







