Day-1:  AWS freetier Account
DataCenter -> zone AZ -> region ->cloud(connect)&Access
Cloud computing
Cloud Layers - PaaS,Saas,IaaS,BPaaS,DaaS
Cloud deployment models
Cloud solution Vendors
VIrtualization: one comp hosting several Virtual Servers, automated provisioning, software installed automatically

adv:
Shared infra
Dynamic provisioning
Network acess
Managed metering

Infra Component hardware
governance Component ,manage&control the resource allocaion
workflow component
self service component

Cloud Models: private,public,hybrid&multi

Bare Metel: Hardware
Virtualization environment:
server & Desktop Virtualization:
Server:IBM mainframe,SUN,Linux
Desktop:VMWare,Oracle virtualbox,Hyperv,KVM,OVM
windows + oracle vm = multiple VM

Login AWS:
root user login
IAM user login

where EC2 optin: compute -> EC2
through browser connect EC2 -> connect opt->
-------------------------------
Day-2
--------------------------------------
1.AWS Global infra
2.Shared responcibility
3.Configuring CLI  to get programatic access or want to work with AWS CLI, create access & secret key use.
4.using Cloud shell
5.aws cloud SDK
5.IAM

DataCenter -> zone AZ -> region ->cloud(connect)&Access
local zone
edge location- data stored as a cache so that when search for data CDN content delivery network using cloud front. first search in cache
if not avail then go to main data center.

every region consist of 2 or more availabilitiy zones

Create EC2 instance or S3 bucket:
key-pair is the regional resource
based on region VPC subnets are available
DNS
VPC is region secific
each Az deafault subnet so subnet is zone specific

Shared responcibility: secuurity of the loud
data center
physical server
physical network
power supply
customer responcible:
security in the cloud
EC2,network security
os patch update
authentication & autherization mang
data encryption

whare is cloud shell: in mang console upper rightside sqare symbol.
configure aws throgh CLI:
how do create access key and use it to access machine? in CLI  how we will config git like
cmd : aws configure
ask for enter accesskey

cmd: aws configure list
cmd : cd aws-cli
cmd: aws s3 help
cmd: aws s3 mb s3://dipt-bucket-date  new bucket created.
using python scripty he printed sll s3 bucket name which are in the user.

AWS mgmt console right corner click on usermenu -> securitycredentials->accesskeys->createnewaccesskey->download accesskey
deactivite existing key then delete key permanently if delet old key
max we can create 2 keys
---------------------------------------------
day3
-----------------------------------------
1. IAM: Scope is global
  MFA
  Account Policy
  User group
  User
  Policy
  Role
  
  2. Compute Service:
  
  MFA enable: AWS console right corner user menu securityaccess
  download google authenticator,pingid
  Authenticator
  Autherization- response to give access to others
  best practice for root account:
  enable MFA
  disable Access key
  dont use root accnt for regular activities
  Onlyfor billing info change or creating IAM accnt for first time
  provide least previlize - if req s3 give only s3 like
  rotate pwd
  complex pwd
  monitor
  
 IAM->access management->account settings to see password or account poicy
 pwd expires 45 days
  root user
  IAM user- end user
  
User Group: use to assign/revoke previliges from/to user virtual boundary
workigon:
DBA
sys admin
server less apps
containers or only developer

create user group: attac policies are user group specific 
option user group-> create group. next open newly created grp -> goto permission-> attah policy->search S3

attach polciy to group or user (multiple policy we attach)
create user group first then create user
Create User: goto user -> adduser then select access type and console pwd then add user group review finally create user.
then allow to login using IAM login with new created user.only allows to operation on S3 not on ec2 will give error

Usecase2: without create user group direct create user to create adminuser wher he has auterization  for all AWS resource like s3,ec2,db..
while create user we can attach policy to the user without user group eith option attach existing policy directly.

only read user create , adminuser, limited rescource user...
custom policy,aws mgmt policy
ROLE: is provided to a service not to any IAM user specifically EC2.
whar is arn name? its a resource name amazon



